First draft of browser and mobile monitoring nerdgraph tutorials (#10802)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/browser-monitoring-config-nerdgraph.mdx

---
title: "NerdGraph tutorial: Browser agent monitoring examples"
tags:
  - APIs
  - NerdGraph
  - Examples
  - Browser
  - Mobile
metaDescription: Examples of using New Relic NerdGraph API to adjust a browser agent
---

> You can create browser applications in the NerdGraph API instead of using the UI. The advantage to this is that you can programmatically create and retrieve the JavaScript snippet to copy and paste into your browser application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create browser applications in the NerdGraph API instead of using the UI. The advantage to this is that when it's time to instrument your browser app with New Relic, you can programmatically create and retrieve the JavaScript snippet to copy and paste into your browser app.
```

## Create a new browser application [#create-browser]

> The following example mutation will create a new browser application with default settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example mutation to create a new browser application with default settings.
```

```graphql
mutation CreateExampleBrowserApplication {
  agentApplicationCreateBrowser(accountId: YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID, name: "Example Browser Application", settings: {cookiesEnabled: true, distributedTracingEnabled: true, loaderType: SPA}) {
    guid
    name
    settings {
      cookiesEnabled
      distributedTracingEnabled
      loaderScript
      loaderType
    }
  }
}
```

## Retrieve the JavaScript snippet [#get-browser-snippet]

> You can retrieve the JavaScript snippet to [copy/paste into your application](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/browser/browser-monitoring/installation/install-browser-monitoring-agent/#copy-paste-app). Note that the returned snippet is a JSON encoded string that will need to be parsed before it can be copy/pasted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can retrieve the JavaScript snippet to [copy/paste into your application](/docs/browser/browser-monitoring/installation/install-browser-monitoring-agent/#copy-paste-app). Note that the returned snippet is a JSON encoded string that will need to be parsed before it can be copy/pasted.
```

```graphql
query FetchBrowserJavaScriptSnippet {
  actor {
    entity(guid: "") {
      ... on BrowserApplicationEntity {
        guid
        name
        browserProperties {
          jsLoaderScript
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Configure browser application monitoring (examples) [#configure-browser-application]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples of configuring browser monitoring [#configure-browser-application]
```

Browser settings can be configured through NerdGraph. Here is an example mutation that changes the apdex of an application to `5`.

```graphql
mutation UpdateBrowserApdexTarget {
  agentApplicationSettingsUpdate(guid: "", settings: {browserConfig: {apdexTarget: 5}}) {
    browserSettings {
      browserConfig {
        apdexTarget
      }
    }
    errors {
      description
      errorClass
      field
    }
  }
}
```

> For more information of what browser settings can be updated via NerdGraph, reference the following mutation. Documentation for each field can be found in the NerdGraph explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on what browser settings can be updated via NerdGraph, reference the following mutation. Documentation for each field can be found in the NerdGraph explorer.
```

---
title: "NerdGraph tutorial: Browser agent monitoring examples"
tags:
  - APIs
  - NerdGraph
  - Examples
  - Browser
metaDescription: Examples of using New Relic NerdGraph API to adjust a browser agent
redirects:
  - /docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/export-dashboards-pdfpng-api-tutorial

>   - /docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples

Author: I don't understand this portion of the front matter

Reviewer 2: This doc used to be under these links, but as it's been iterated the address has changed. This ensures that if people (or another doc) is still using these old URLs, they're still taken to the right place.

Reviewer 2: Since this is new content and never had an address before, this part of the frontmatter can be left empty!
